---
title:  " Chandan Kumar Singh"
date:   2000-01-04 12:00:00 +0100
categories: current
photo: "/images/chandan.jpg"
position: "Post Doctoral Research Fellow"
address: ""
telephone: ""
email: "c.k.singh@bham.ac.uk"
skype: ""
twitter: ""
---
I am a Research Fellow currently collaborating with Dr Lucy Clark (University of Birmingham), Dr Andrew J. Morris (University of Birmingham), and Dr Ross Stewart from ISIS. Our research focuses on studying correlated disorders and their impact on complex magnetic structures in various quantum materials.

During my PhD, I worked under the guidance of Dr Mukul Kabir at IISER Pune in India. My doctoral research involved utilizing first-principles calculations to model tip-induced superconductivity at the interfaces of different bulk materials such as CuFeSb [Appl. Phys. Lett. 242411, 108 (2016)], hcp-Zr [J. Phys.: Condens. Matter. 30, 255002 (2018)]., and ZrSiS [J. Phys.: Condens. Matter. 31, 485707 (2019] with an Ag tip. We investigated the absence, emergence, and enhancement of the superconductivity phase under the influence of a metallic tip. Additionally, I conducted research on two-dimensional magnetism in monolayers of chromium trihalides, employing an anisotropic Heisenberg spin Hamiltonian. Our findings highlighted the significance of long-range magnetic exchange interactions in establishing the correct ordering temperature, and we observed a significant increase in their ordering temperature through experimentally feasible hole doping [Phys. Rev. B 103, 214411 (2021), Phys. Rev. Materials 6, 084407 (2002)]. In the final part of my thesis, I investigated a van der Waals heterostructure comprising a superconductor, NbSe2, placed over a magnetic layer of CrI3. Our results demonstrated that the presence of a magnetic field induces a nodal phase in the bulk material, and along the armchair edge of NbSe2, a Majorana flat band emerges at zero energy.